All right welcome back my students so it's staff for us to start using our made aware all right to start
finishing it up.
Right now we have the we created the roles table we have insert a user ID here to relay that table the
rules table with the users we have build the relationship.
All right.
So we have that right here.
We also have the middle where we have a registering current without ph B as well.
So we can use a by its ID or a key right.
Really cool.
All right.
So what's the next step.
Well the next step is to apply are made aware to actually write our conditions right here our code.
All right.
So this is before the requests and this happens after the requests.
So if you put something here below and you got a call this response though but that's consider after
.
OK.
But anyway more more about that in maybe a little later lecture.
Right now we're not going to dig too deep into this you can see about this in the documentation.
But anyway let me show you how to use middleware.
This is my job right here with this section how to how to use them properly.
If you want to dig deeper you need to take.
You need to go to the documentation and really read read and read and practice.
OK.
But anyway let's get to it.
So what I want to do is I want to give a user I want to give one of these users won't we.
We don't have a user.
We have to create one a rule and the role is going to be either an administrator or Jack or a subscriber
.
Right.
So I want to actually give them access to one part of our application depending on the you and the user
role.
So let's actually instead of roll your kernel Let's call this is actually you know let's create another
middleware.
All right.
Because something that makes a little bit more sense.
So let's go say BHB already and make made aware and I call this is Admin like this Antar II let's use
synchronize.
All right is admen OK.
And now let's register it.
So I want to refer to it like this as a matter of fact let's refer to it by.
Is is at it like this.
All right.
Cool.
And it's going to be in the same place and you're going to copy this guy right here.
And the name is different.
As a matter of fact we actually created the rule let's delete real quick because it needs to be uppercase
.
So is Admin like this is it.
All right cool answer.
There we go.
So now here we need to spell it correctly.
Is the man.
There we go.
And that should be good.
All right.
And here I refer to with this more.
Actually let's talk capital.
All right.
Like this doesn't matter.
All right cool.
So now that we have that let's go to that specific made aware and let's start writing our functionality
before we do that.
Let's go ahead and create a roll.
All right let's go to our application real quick and our application is Logan.
Let's actually raised or use of before we give it a roll right.
And let's just see.
All right.
Oops we already have one there.
So we need to do refresh.
Actually
that's a different application right.
Sorry about that.
I got so many applications open.
That is a different one.
That is cold.
My bad.
Let's register right here a are-I
cool.
All right.
And now let's go to our BHB admen just to find out just clear this up a little bit just to find out
and maybe answer a roar.
Bitchery my admen cool.
Let's go to Claribel
and middleware.
Last word is we either use or that's OK.
Now let's answer a role.
And role is going to be an instructor or administrator and this is going to be subscriber.
OK.
All right cool.
All right.
So we got that part done.
Now let's try our condition here.
So what do we want to do.
Well we have a relationship in user.
We have a role.
OK let me show you how this is done.
So here if you want to check something out like that what we can do is we could create a function let's
create a function then use a model where Let's do it like this.
No different functionality here.
So I'm going to say public function is admin OK and I'm going to say if
this role and name equals and Ministre or all right then returned true.
All right.
If not just return false.
That's all.
So now we have this functionality here that we can call anytime we won this method from our user model
and we can ask it if the user is admin.
All right.
If it's admin if their if they're role from the user is equal to Administrator returned true.
So he's got to let us know if he's an I'm not an administrator.
All right cool.
Let's check it out real quick routes.
Let's
do that.
All right then before we do this let's go and go to our users and say they're all here.
We're going to insert hoops.
Let's do it on these user let's insert the rule that we want and the role what we won is one.
If you see the role here.
Number one is administrator.
That's what we're going to give user number one we don't have any other users.
But for now.
All right.
So here we could do what we could do is we could say we could get the user out.
I remember how we get the user out like this one out then to get a user.
And now we can say Let me see.
All right.
If user is admin OK with King X or something this user is a good administrator.
All right cool.
Let's see if it works.
OK.
All right.
So right now if we were made aware that there we go this user is an administrator.
Now let's actually check this to see if it works correctly.
Let's go to a BHB admin and let's change let's go the users edit let's edit that and change the rule
to two.
Let's go back here and refresh.
As you can see we don't see anything here because our function is returning false.
So let's recap a little bit on what we did.
All right.
Real quick we register a new roll a new made aware.
Called is adamant.
That's what we register.
This is the new that new made aware Whoops.
All right.
We're not using it yet.
But we are.
We register this guy right here.
OK.
Now after that we created a function.
All right.
A med call is admen because we're going to use that later on.
But I want to create this tool that way you can see all right how he's done.
So we created this and then we are using it utilizing it right here on routes.
All right.
To test things out.
In a letter to taller you actually and that's why I'm going to show you how to use this with a middleware
.
All right.
Cool.
See you in the next lecture